Hello! I'm studying to be a secondary school Mathematics teacher in New South Wales.

  

I was a software engineer for three years. As such, I know my way around computers and how to explain introductory programming. As an undergrad, I led a seminar on algorithms for Year 8 girls. My years in the industry equip me to shed light on STEM careers for students.

  

I am also an avid cyclist and have completed two rides of 100km, known as Gran Fondos (unofficial). I am well-informed of several different pop culture fandoms, allowing me to connect with students in terms of media. I have studied behavioural interventions and am able to assist students with problem behaviour, with a varied knowledge of various counselling principles, such as mindfulness, dialectics, correcting cognitive distortions, and self-regulation.

### Teaching Ethos

When teaching, I tend to frequently use metaphors. They are my bread and butter, meta intended. I find that metaphors help ground unfamiliar concepts in the known world. I am particularly fond of metaphors that draw on real-world objects, which many people find easier to deal with than abstract ideas.

  

I put much stock in the Socratic method. It can be time consuming, but is much more evocative than explicit instruction. There is a sense of achievement and euphoria when one has a breakthrough in understanding a concept, and that comes through following one's own reasoning rather than someone else's. Strong emotion is a powerful aid to memory, and I would prefer students have positive emotions associated with school rather than negative. In my own life, the moment of epiphany has been a strong motivator for learning and I positively bubble with delight when I can share this passion with others.

  

When I tell others I'm a pre-service teacher, I frequently hear how a specific teacher had the effect of making or breaking their school experience. I was called the "friendliest Computer Science major" when I was in undergrad, which is part of the reason I left the lonelier career of software engineering for the people-centric career of teaching. I thrive on connection and believe that a student's relationship with their teacher forms the foundation of their relationship with the subject.

  

I believe that "below-average" students are not given the attention they deserve. In what is known as the Pygmalion effect, the expectations of teachers often impact student performance, creating a self-fulfilling prophecy. More successful students are often more likely to receive positive feedback from teachers, making it unsurprising that a feedback loop is generated based on early student performance. But early indicators should not be a student's destiny. It's my goal as a teacher to see the potential in each student and find ways to focus on each, as daunting as it seems.